
Emily Sanford - Comparing and Estimating
------
How many apples are on that tree? Even without counting, 
you can “guesstimate” approximately how many there are, 
and if you are looking at two different trees, you get a 
strong sense of which one has more apples. The mechanism 
by which you make these estimates is known as the 
Approximate Number System (ANS). Although many species 
seem to have an ANS, and in humans this ability seems 
related to other math skills, it remains unclear how the 
ANS figures out how many items you are looking at. In 
fact, it is an open question whether the mechanisms used 
to “guesstimate” the number of apples on one tree are 
even the same as those you use when you determine which 
of the two trees has more apples.

In this experiment, you performed both comparison and 
estimation judgments. We are interested in how much these 
two tasks tap into the same mechanisms in the mind. We 
will use computational models to quantify your precision 
on each task and see to what extent they are related to 
one another. Can we predict how well you will do on the 
comparison task, knowing how well you did on the 
estimation task?

Thank you so much for participating, and please let me 
know if you have any questions.
******